[Music]
ripening fig trees overhanging the
water's edge provide welcome food for
shoals of hungry fish the commotion
attracts Dorado known locally as the
river tiger
[Music]
they patrol the feeding Charles looking
for a chance to strike
[Music]
and waiting in the wings ready to pick
off any injured fish are the piranhas
[Music]
a feeding frenzy quickly develops
piranha can strip a fish to the bone in
minutes it's March and light returns of
the high arctic sweeping away four
months of darkness
[Music]
a polar bear stirs she has been in her
den the whole winter emergence marks the
beginning of spring
after months of confinement underground
she toboggans down the slope perhaps to
clean her fur
perhaps for sheer joy
[Music]
her Cubs gaze out of their bright new
world for the very first time the female
calls them but this steep slope is not
the easiest place to take your first
steps
[Music]
but they are hungry and eager to reach
their mother whose delayed feeding them
on this special day
now she lures them with the promise of
milk the only food the Cubs have known
since they were born deaf and blind
beneath the snow some two months ago
[Music]
their mother is not eaten for five
months and has lost half her body weight
now she converts the last of her fat
reserves into milk for her cubs
[Music]
[Applause]
the spring Sun brings warmth but also a
problem for the mother it starts to melt
the Cirrus that is where she hunts for
the seals she needs to feed her cubs and
she must get there before the ice breaks
up
[Music]
for now though it's still minus 30
degrees and the Cubs must have the
shelter of the den
[Music]
there is no other species on the planet
that responds as quickly and as
dramatically to the good times as the
desert locust eggs that have remained in
the ground for 20 years begin to hatch
the young locusts are known as hoppers
for at this stage they're flightless
they find new feeding grounds by
following the smell of sprouting grass
normally it takes four weeks for hoppers
to become adults but when the conditions
are right as now their development
switches to the fast track
as the vegetation in one place begins to
run out the winged adults release
pheromones sent messages which tell
others in the group that they must move
on
[Music]
and when groups merge they form a swarm
an adult locust eats its entire body
weight every day and a whole swarm can
consume literally hundreds of tons of
vegetation
they have to keep on moving the swarm
travels with the wind it's the most
energy-saving way of fly
following the flow of wind means that
they're always heading toward areas of
low pressure
places where wind meets rain and
vegetation starts to grow as they fly
swarms join up with other swarms to form
gigantic plagues several billion strong
and as much as 40 miles wide
they will consume every edible thing
that lies in their path
[Music]
this is one of planet Earth's greatest
spectacles it's rarely seen on the scale
and it won't last long once the food has
gone the steady roar of a billion
beating locust wings will once again be
replaced by nothing more than the sound
of the desert wind
sailfish three meters not of closing in
on prey they will only use just enough
energy to make their kill never wasting
a fin stroke
nearly a hundred selfish have surrounded
a single school of baitfish it's very
rare to see so many of these hunters in
one place
[Music]
to herd their prey the Predators raise
their huge dorsal fins
[Music]
a mistimed strike by one sailfish could
fatally damage another but each
continually changes its color from blue
to strike to black that warns its
companions of its intentions and also
confuses to prey
as the shoal is driven nearer the
surface it comes within the range of the
seabirds
[Music]
out here in the open ocean there is
nowhere for the baitfish
to hide
[Music]
Sailfish live a high-octane life to
survive they must find prey daily so
their entire existence will be spent on
the move at the goose colony it's high
summer and eggs are hatching the young
all emerged within a day or two a marvel
of timing the colony is now home to a
million goslings
the Fox is still gathering all she can
get sometimes
[Music]
one will have to do not all food is
stored some is needed right now
she has 700 cows to feed as their
appetite screw the mother must work
tirelessly to raise her family only fat
healthy Cubs will survive the Arctic
winter
[Applause]
[Music]
the vast majority of the Gosling's are
still flourishing their parents lead
them down to the safety of the water as
soon as they're strong enough to make
the journey for the foxes boom time has
come to an end but the mother has given
her Cubs the best possible start in life
the geese will continue grazing the
tundra until the summer ends and they're
forced to head south for the winter
[Music]
[Applause]